(AAA) Access for Enterprises guide (#36600)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/getting_started/access_for_enterprises/organizing_your_deployment.md

---

> title: Organizing Your Datadog Deployment

Reviewer: I might be wrong here, but I wasn't sure what deployments had to do with this page?

If you accept my suggestion, don't forget to do a find and replace for all references to this page.
```suggestion
title: Choosing Your Datadog Topology
```

> description: Decide between single-org and multi-org Datadog deployments for your enterprise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Decide between single-org and multi-org Datadog topology for your enterprise.
```

further_reading:
- link: "/account_management/organization_topology/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Organization Topology"
- link: "/account_management/multi_organization/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Multi-Organization Account Management"
- link: "/account_management/rbac/data_access"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Data Access Control"
- link: "/getting_started/teams/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Getting Started with Teams"
---

## Overview

The first decision in your access strategy is how many Datadog organizations your enterprise needs. This decision affects everything downstream: how you define roles, restrict data, share dashboards, and manage identity. Getting it right upfront avoids costly migrations later.

## Start with a single org

> Datadog recommends implementing Datadog with a **single organization** where possible. A single org maximizes the power of connected observability workflows: traces link to logs, logs link to infrastructure, and dashboards can span your entire estate. Datadog's access controls (including [Data Access Control][1], [granular access controls][2], and [custom roles][3]) provide enterprise-grade data segregation within a single org, even in regulated industries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog recommends a **single organization** where possible. A single org maximizes the power of connected observability workflows. Traces link to logs, logs link to infrastructure, and dashboards can span your entire estate. Datadog's access controls (including [Data Access Control][1], [granular access controls][2], and [custom roles][3]) provide enterprise-grade data segregation within a single org, even in regulated industries.
```

> Many large enterprises with hundreds of teams and thousands of users successfully operate in a single org by using Teams and Data Access Control to create internal boundaries, rather than splitting into separate orgs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Within-org segmentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Evaluate segmentation before splitting orgs
```

> Before adding orgs, consider whether **Teams and Data Access Control** can provide the isolation you need within a single org. Some enterprises operate dozens of internal business units, agencies, or subsidiaries within a small number of orgs, using Data Access Control to restrict data visibility and granular access controls to protect resources. This approach preserves cross-cutting observability while still maintaining strict boundaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of adding multiple organizations, ask whether **Teams and Data Access Control** can provide the isolation you need within a single org. You can operate dozens of internal business units, agencies, or subsidiaries within a small number of orgs, using Data Access Control to restrict data visibility and granular access controls to protect resources. This approach preserves cross-cutting observability while still maintaining strict boundaries.
```

> The key question is: *Do these groups need to share any operational context?* If teams trace requests across each other's services, share infrastructure, or participate in the same incidents, a single org with strong internal segmentation is usually the better path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key question is: *Do these groups need to share any operational context?* If teams trace requests across each other's services, share infrastructure, or participate in the same incidents, a single org with strong internal segmentation is the better path.
```

## When multiple orgs are appropriate

> There are cases where multiple organizations are justified:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some cases where multiple organizations are justified:
```

- **Separate companies or acquisitions** that do not share infrastructure, services, or personnel. If there is no shared operational context, a shared org provides little value.
- **Hard compliance boundaries** requiring complete data isolation between divisions. For example, a defense division whose standard metrics and infrastructure must be invisible to commercial users, even at the metadata level.
- **Distinct billing or contractual requirements** where usage must be tracked and invoiced independently.

> Some enterprises also use multiple orgs as a workaround when within-org access controls don't yet cover all their products. As Datadog's access controls expand, these enterprises may consolidate orgs over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use multiple orgs as a workaround when within-org access controls don't yet cover all products. As Datadog's access controls expand, you can consolidate orgs over time.
```
